we're to the Middle East now where the
devastating war between Israel and Hamas
in Gaza means persistent dangers for
journalists who are trying to cover the
conflict recent figures from the
committee to protect journalists show
Palestinian journalists made up the
majority of all reporters killed
worldwide in the past year now since
sas's October 7th Terror attacks 83
Palestinian journalists and two Israeli
journalists have been killed in the
conflict within God it's now almost
exclusively Palestinians reporting on
the war on the ground Israel has refused
to let foreign journalists in to report
independently there all those reporting
from within Gaza are doing so under
extremely difficult
conditions well for more now I'm joined
by Jody Ginsburg she's the CEO of the
committee to protect journalist and
joins me from New York J it's good to
have you with us let's talk about about
this conflict this conflict is just what
three months old um and in terms of
being dangerous to journalists how does
it compare to other conflicts where
journalists have tried to get to the
truth this is the deadliest Conflict for
journalists that the committee to
protect journalists has ever documented
we've been doing this work for more than
30 years more journalists died in the
first 10 weeks of the Israel Gaza War
than have ever died certainly since
we've been doing this work in a single
country over an entire year the
intensity the numbers is absolutely
unprecedented your organization we know
in investigates the deaths of
journalists in Gaza I don't have to tell
you it's very difficult to to verify any
information that's coming out of the
Gaza Strip how do you make sure that the
data you're collecting that that is
accurate it is extremely difficult the
sorts of things that we would normally
rely on being able to speak to families
being able to speak to colleagues is
extremely challenging because families
are being killed colleagues are being
killed nevertheless we take the same
approach that we would with any other
situation we make sure that we have at
least two sources of information for any
of the journalists that we document we
speak to friends we speak to families we
do research online that looks at their
outputs that to make sure that our
information is as accurate as possible
and of course it's a war information
comes to light um o over time and we
update our information as we get it what
do you say to the allegations that are
coming from Israel that some of these
journalists are are are militants I mean
do you believe that do you believe that
they've actually been targeted by
Israeli forces
well we have yet to see any credible
evidence that the journalists that the
Israelis have said are actually
militants or actually terrorists are
such last year before this war started
the committee to protect journalists
report produced a report called deadly
pattern which looked at the killings of
largely Palestinian journalists by
Israeli forces over the past 22 years
and we found that 20 journalists have
been killed and not a single case had
anyone been held accountable and what we
saw in fact was a pattern in which quite
often Israel was accused journalists of
being a terrorists of being militants
but never produce any evidence and that
remains the case in this war too Israel
says that its Army cannot guarantee the
safety of journalists um how can
journalists then how can they they do
their job with without risking their
lives journalist in go cannot do their
jobs without risking their lives nowhere
in Gaza is safe journalists are doing
absolutely what we would expect
journalists to do covering a war they're
looking at the aftermath of bombings by
going to hospitals and then we see
hospitals bombed or they're going to
refugee camps to look at the effects of
displacements those have also been
bombed there isn't a place for
journalists to be safe in the current
environment but it's absolutely
imperative that we recognize that
journalists are civilians and must be
treated as such so they must never be
targeted Judy Ginsburg with the
committee to protect journalists Judy we
appreciate your time and your input
tonight thank
you thank
you